docs/content/pages/config.md, before:

---
Title: Configuration
Description: Guide to configuring your menagerie site
Sort_Priority: 95
---

# Configuration

Configuration is done in a single file at the root of your site called `config.json`.  

If you want reference on what each property in this file does, take a look at the [schema]({{ 'Configuration Schema'|route }}).  

## Using a Different Config File

You can use a different config file during generation by passing it in after `generate`

```shell
menagerie generate --config path/to/config.json
```

## Caching

Using the `cache_enabled` config property, you can control whether you want menagerie to cache output so subsequent builds are faster.
Before you turn on caching, add `.m_cache` to your `.gitignore` so it doesn't get pushed to the repo. Anytime menagerie encounters a file that hasn't changed since last run, the rendered version of that file will be loaded from the cache.
A dot (`.`) is displayed instead of `Building: path/to/file.md ➔ out/path/to/out.html` if this occurs. Finally, if `config.json` is edited the entire cache will be invalidated.

If you wish to clear the cache before running generate, you can use the `clear-cache` optional arg:

```shell
menagerie generate --clear-cache
```

## Environment Variables

The `URL_PREFIX` environment variable is used to prepend paths when calling `route` and `static`.  
This is most useful when developing on a local machine where links don't work.

For example, PyCharm's dev server serves file relative to the root of the project, but if my `docs/out/` folder isn't at the root of the site links will not work.  
To counteract this I can set my `URL_PREFIX` variable to `/docs/out/` so that way all links will point to the correct location.  

If you're using pipenv this is as simple as making a file called `.env` at the root of your docs folder and doing

```shell
pipenv run menagerie generate
```

Pipenv should automatically load environment variables from `.env` for you

### Note About GitHub Actions

If you're running site generation in an action, you'll want to set `base_url` to "https://YourUser.gihub.io/" and `URL_PREFIX` to "YourRepo".  
Setting environment variables in GitHub Actions can be done with the `env` property at the root level.

```yaml
name: My Action
on:
  # ...
env:
  URL_PREFIX: /my-repo/
jobs:
  # ...
```

If you want an example of how to build menagerie pages with GitHub actions, the menagerie docs [has one set up already](https://github.com/Bwc9876/menagerie/blob/master/.github/workflows/build-docs.yml).  
**Important Note**: You can remove the "Install Self" step of the job as that is specific to menagerie, this also assumes you're using pipenv and have a folder called `docs` in the root of your repo.

Commit message:

Explain how to cache on docs

docs/content/pages/config.md, after:

---
Title: Configuration
Description: Guide to configuring your menagerie site
Sort_Priority: 95
---

# Configuration

Configuration is done in a single file at the root of your site called `config.json`.  

If you want reference on what each property in this file does, take a look at the [schema]({{ 'Configuration Schema'|route }}).  

## Using a Different Config File

You can use a different config file during generation by passing it in after `generate`

```shell
menagerie generate --config path/to/config.json
```

## Caching

Using the `cache_enabled` config property, you can control whether you want menagerie to cache output so subsequent builds are faster.
Before you turn on caching, add `.m_cache` to your `.gitignore` so it doesn't get pushed to the repo. Anytime menagerie encounters a file that hasn't changed since last run, the rendered version of that file will be loaded from the cache.
A dot (`.`) is displayed instead of `Building: path/to/file.md ➔ out/path/to/out.html` if this occurs. Finally, if `config.json` is edited the entire cache will be invalidated.

If you wish to clear the cache before running generate, you can use the `clear-cache` optional arg:

```shell
menagerie generate --clear-cache
```

### Caching in GitHub Actions

To setup caching in GitHub actions, use the pre-built cache action with some unorthadox keys:

```yaml
# ...
- run: echo "GITHUB_PREVIOUS_RUN_NUMBER=$(($GITHUB_RUN_NUMBER-1))" >> $GITHUB_ENV

- name: Cache Site
  uses: actions/cache@v2
  with:
    path: ./.m_cache # (or whatever path you use)
    key: docs-cache-${{ '{{' }} github.run_number {{ '}}' }}
    restore-keys: |
      docs-cache-${{ '{{' }} env.GITHUB_PREVIOUS_RUN_NUMBER {{ '}}' }}
# ...
```

What this does is create a cache with the current run number as the key, and restores using the key of the last workflow run.  
Note that this will only work if you're running this workflow on a machine that uses bash.

## Environment Variables

The `URL_PREFIX` environment variable is used to prepend paths when calling `route` and `static`.  
This is most useful when developing on a local machine where links don't work.

For example, PyCharm's dev server serves file relative to the root of the project, but if my `docs/out/` folder isn't at the root of the site links will not work.  
To counteract this I can set my `URL_PREFIX` variable to `/docs/out/` so that way all links will point to the correct location.  

If you're using pipenv this is as simple as making a file called `.env` at the root of your docs folder and doing

```shell
pipenv run menagerie generate
```

Pipenv should automatically load environment variables from `.env` for you

### Note About GitHub Actions

If you're running site generation in an action, you'll want to set `base_url` to "https://YourUser.gihub.io/" and `URL_PREFIX` to "YourRepo".  
Setting environment variables in GitHub Actions can be done with the `env` property at the root level.

```yaml
name: My Action
on:
  # ...
env:
  URL_PREFIX: /my-repo/
jobs:
  # ...
```

If you want an example of how to build menagerie pages with GitHub actions, the menagerie docs [has one set up already](https://github.com/Bwc9876/menagerie/blob/master/.github/workflows/build-docs.yml).  
**Important Note**: You can remove the "Install Self" step of the job as that is specific to menagerie, this also assumes you're using pipenv and have a folder called `docs` in the root of your repo.
